+++
title = "Microsoldering repair of an iPhone 11 Pro with no display"
date = "2025-12-18"

[taxonomies]
tags=["iphone", "microsoldering"]
+++

# Introduction
I've always loved watching board-level electronics repair videos from YouTube channels like Louis Rossman or iPadRehab. The process of visually inspecting the board, measuring, reading schematics,
and figuring out what the issue is really appeals to me. So when my cousin gave me some broken iPhones, I thought it'd be the perfect opportunity to learn.

# Equipment
## Soldering iron
I have the Pinecil. It's cheap, and very good for the price.
## Hot air station
I have the Atten ST-862D.
## Bench power supply
I have the HP/Aligent E3610. It's a linear power supply that I was able to find cheaply on eBay, and probably more reliable than the cheap ones available on Amazon. Plus, it will be much
easier to repair if it ever fails since the service manuals with schematics and component specifications are available online. The only downside of this is that it doesn't have a separate button for
turning the unit on/off and enabling/disabling the output.
## Microscope
I have the AmScope SE400-Z. It's binocular so you get depth perception, has a large working distance, and has 10X and 20X eyepieces. The downside is that it's basically a fixed configuration.
The objective lens is 1X, so the magnification is done entirely in the eyepieces, and you can't change the objective lens to, for example, add a Barlow lens to increase working distance. You also
can't zoom, and the focal plane is fairly shallow, so you may be adjusting it frequently if you need to look at the side of a board, for example. The next level up from this, the SM-4NTP, 
is about double the price, however.
## Multimeter
Ensure it has diode mode.
## Consumables
- Flux
- Solder
- Kapton tape.
## Misc tools
- Tweezers
- iPhone battery connector squid

# Diagnosis
I disassembled the iPhone down to the logic board, and even though the liquid damage indicators were tripped, there weren't any visible signs of corrosion on the logic board itself.
Plugging the board into DC power, it showed a normal current pattern indicative of normal booting, but the display remained black. However, I noticed that it would vibrate when toggling the mute switch,
and I could even swipe to power off. So it looks like the phone boots and even has touch, we just have no image.

## Diode mode
Looking closer, I noticed that the waterproofing on top of the SMD components near the display flex connector looked off.

{{ figure(src="waterproofing.jpeg", alt="alt text", caption="Waterproofing near the display connector", width="500", height="500") }}

I put my multimeter into diode mode and took measurements on each of the pins.
Diode mode measurements on known-good logic boards can be found on [Logi.wiki](https://logi.wiki/index.php/iPhone_Diode_Mode_Measurements). I noticed that pin 16, labelled "PP3V0_DISPLAY_VCI_CONN"
on the schematic, was reading high, 0.850 instead of 0.650.

{{ figure(src="schematic-j80000.png", alt="alt text", caption="Display Flex Connector", width="500", height="500") }}
{{ figure(src="schematic-pp3v0.png", alt="alt text", caption="The PP3V0_DISPLAY line from the PMIC", width="400", height="300") }}

## Microsoldering

Looking at the schematic, we can see that PP3V0 display is generated by the PMIC, there's 2 filter capacitors on the line, and there's a filter. The line isn't short, so the problem probably isn't the
capacitors. But it could be the filter, so I checked diode mode before it and was then getting the correct 0.650 reading. I applied some ~150C heat to loosen up the waterproofing and while scraping it away 
the filter just disintegrated and disappeared. Looks like that was the problem.

{{ figure(src="no-filter.jpeg", alt="alt text", caption="The filter is gone", width="400", height="300") }}

Luckily we have the schematic, so we know we need to buy a ferrite bead filter in 01005 (the smallest SMD size) with 70Ohm impedence and rated for 0.3A.

I tinned the pads, applied some Kapton tape to protect the connectors and NAND from the heat, and soldered it back on at ~350C.
{{ figure(src="tinned-pads.jpeg", alt="alt text", caption="Tinned the pads, no picture of the capacitor on there :(", width="400", height="300") }}

We now have the correct diode mode reading at pin 16 on the connector, and after reconnecting the display, we now have image - sort of!
{{ figure(src="image.jpeg", alt="alt text", caption="I guess it needs a display replacement", width="400", height="300") }}

There was some corrosion on the display itself, so a quick screen replacement later and the phone worked perfectly.
